My name is Xavier Legro and
I'm the Mac OS X evangelist.
I work in developer relations.
And I'd like to welcome you to session
Making a Modern Carbon Application.
The funny thing is that we were talking
with the guys from HIToolbox and we were
wondering about the sessions this year.
We had great content for HIView.
We wanted to give you a good
update on what's going on with
developing using HIToolbox.
And then we got to the conclusion that
there was still one missing piece.
You see, people have been using Carbon in
different terms in the last three
or four years since Mac OS X.
There is this notion that
Carbon is related to CarbonLib.
And so some people think that, well,
they're coming to the platform
and they're wondering,
"Well, should I use Carbon?
Is it CarbonLib?
Do I want to work on Mac OS X?"
So we wanted to emphasize the
fact that when we talk about
Carbon development now on Mac OS X,
we're really talking about
developing using the toolbox.
And the idea is writing a
modern C and C++ application.
And the goal of this session is to
develop a modern C and C++ application.
So the goal of this session is really to
kind of scratch what we've been doing,
scratch the fact that you have CarbonLib
to support and Mac OS X because we
think now we are past that point.
And we want you guys to make
sure we understand that as well.
And the goal of this session
is really to focus on new
technologies we've been introducing,
new concepts that are very,
very important on Mac OS X for you to
develop a modern C and C++ application.
All right, for that I'd like to invite
David McLeod on stage,
who's going to be taking you through
the different concepts and the
main key architectures that you
should think of when you develop
your application on Mac OS X.
David?
Thank you, Xavier.
Thank you very much.
And thanks for coming.
I really am happy about that because it
means to me that our message is getting
out that the HI Toolbox is renewed and
you can make a modern Carbon application
with the new HI Toolbox.
First, I'd like to kind of
qualify who should be here.
It's kind of three groups.
People that haven't made
a Carbon application yet.
Second,
people that have made applications,
but maybe Mac OS 9 based and made
wait next event applications.
And third, there's probably a group of
you that are responsible for
porting applications to Mac OS X.
So this will be helpful for you,
and that's sort of the
target audience today.
What do we mean by a
modern Carbon application?
A modern Carbon application
is a full OS X citizen,
behaves efficiently,
doesn't block and use
up too many resources.
And we get that because we've
introduced a simplified event
dispatching model called Carbon Events,
where you're not polling
anymore to handle your events.
And this makes for a very
efficient application.
Also, your user interface is
now defined using NIBs.
We'll get into those in more
detail as the session goes on.
Also, your modern Carbon application
uses up-to-date OS services
like navigation services,
CFPreferences, icon services, quartz,
all the modern services that are
available to you on the operating system.
So what I'm going to go over today,
we're going to show you how to make
a new Carbon application using Xcode.
Go over making a user interface
using Interface Builder and making
your user interface in .niB files.
I'm going to show you some of
the user interface elements
that are available in HIToolbox.
It's actually very complete
and you can make a very full
application just using the pieces
that are available from HIToolbox.
Having those pieces is nice,
but it also shows you how to handle
events and commands so you can deal with
the user as they use your application.
I'm also going to touch on using
alerts in your applications to sort
of interrupt and notify the user of
things and communicate with them.
The last thing I'll touch on is
navigation services a little bit,
just so you can show how to
interact with users in terms
of selecting files and folders.
So I'm really only going to
cover two frameworks today,
and they're both sub-frameworks
of the Carbon framework.
So I'm going to cover HIToolbox,
which is going to cover all
of the user interface stuff.
I'm also going to touch
on navigation services.
Overall, what is Carbon?
When we talk about Carbon,
what does it mean?
A lot of people think it's CarbonLib,
like Xavier was saying,
or that it's some sort of bridging
technology just to get you onto OS X.
It's actually not true.
Carbon is a full set of C and
C++ APIs that you can use to
make a full native client,
native application on OS X.
These APIs give you full access to the
OS X services that are available to you,
like the user interface,
accessing the file system,
using the drawing primitives in Quartz.
Specifically,
HIToolbox is the set of C and
C++ APIs that you can use
to make a user interface.
So we're thrown around the
term "modern" a little bit.
What do I mean by being
a modern application?
Something that's important to
us is that you use Xcode so that
you can make a Mako application.
Another benefit of using
Xcode is that your application
will be made as a bundle.
I'll kind of cover
that in the next slide.
Also, being modern means that you're
going to use Interface Builder to
design your interface and make the
user interface with .niB files.
As I stated previously,
being modern also means using the
existing Mac OS X services that are
appropriate for your application,
such as Quartz, Navigation Services,
HIViews.
to make your application.
Also, you want to use the
Carbon Event Dispatcher.
It's the modern, efficient,
non-polling event dispatching mechanism
that's available in HIToolbox.
I'm going to cover that later on.
So for those of you that
may be familiar with writing
Mac applications the old way,
maybe similar to the way
you wrote them on OS 9,
or the way you wrote
them using CarbonLibs and
WaitNextEvents applications.
There's a few differences.
First, the old way,
a lot of the APIs dealt
with Pascal strings.
That made it very hard to
internationalize your products because
you couldn't use the extended character
sets that are available and are needed
for other languages like Japanese,
Chinese, etc.
All of the new APIs use CFStrings,
and that means that
they're Unicode savvy,
and you can use all of these
extended character sets to
provide your application,
specifically the user interface.
The old way of dealing with events
was to use WaitNextEvent and pull
continuously using up CPU cycles.
The new way is to use
Carbon Events and not really pull
at all and only be notified when
important events are coming to you.
That means that you block and you're not
using the CPU and you're an efficient,
great performing application on OS X.
The old way of dealing with files
is not even available anymore,
standard file,
and is replaced by using navigation
services to select files and folders
and communicate between the user
and the application where files are
going to be saved and retrieved from.
Another difference is moving from
a single application file where the
application was totally enclosed
in this one big file with resource
forks and all kinds of things in
there to an application bundle.
An application bundle,
it seems the same to
you when you use OS X,
but it's still... Like,
when you go to use OS X,
it appears to be one icon with
everything all squished into one binary,
but it's actually represented by
a folder underneath that's only
evident to you as a developer.
And that folder contains the binary of
your application and your .nib files,
any other additional files like maybe
some sounds or some image files,
as well as your plist
to describe yourself.
So it's actually a whole
hierarchy that's underneath.
You can also provide localization
information in there,
and it's all seamlessly done
through the application bundle.
The old way of making your user
interface was to build it up in a
set of resources and maybe load it
with a dialogue manager or something.
The new way is to use a niB-based
user interface by designing your user
interface with Interface Builder.
I'm going to talk about niBs a little
bit later on in the presentation.
The old way of actually creating a
user interface was to use controls.
And the new way is to use HIViews.
They've totally replaced controls.
Even the things that you're
used to calling controls,
like buttons, et cetera,
are actually underneath the covers,
really just HIViews.
So the modern way is HIV use
because they also do what we
call the compositing system,
and that means that the drawing
model is much more efficient
when your user interface draws.
Only what needs to be drawn gets drawn.
And lastly,
the old way of drawing was to do it
with Quick Draw and ports and all that.
And the new way is Quartz.
It's got all kinds of
really great features.
It's very efficient.
And it's used system-wide,
so you want to use the
system-wide drawing mechanism
in your Carbon application.
So I'd like to invite
Guy Fullerton up on the stage.
He's an HIToolbox engineer with me.
And he's just going to show you how
to make an application with Xcode.
Switch over to the demo?
Yeah, good.
All right, so what I'm going to show you
today is just kind of a reinforcing
of some of the things David's
going to talk about on his slides.
Let's say I want to
build a new application.
Let's say I want to make
some kind of picture viewer.
So I'll take you through the
steps I might do for that.
First thing I'm going to do is
launch Xcode to create my project.
And I'll choose New Project.
Now, there's a couple different
choices for Carbon applications.
There's just plain old
Carbon application,
and then there's the
nib-based Carbon application.
I want the nib-based one because
that's the more modern alternative.
So I'll choose that.
Let me put it on my desktop.
And let's call it--I'm spacing.
I've got to get this right,
otherwise everything's going to go bad.
Let's call it strip.
Okay,
so Xcode creates the project for me,
and Xcode's going to take care of a lot
of the other sort of modern features.
It's automatically going to build
the application into a bundle,
and it'll have a plist and
all those kinds of things.
So Xcode already sets up a main for me.
It's just a very skeleton main.
It does the basic things you'd
need to do at App Bring Up Time,
which is very little these
days for a modern Carbon app.
And I'll go through that in a little
bit more detail in a later demo.
But for now, let's just build it and
run it and see what we get.
So the app launches.
It just gives us a basic window.
We've got a menu bar that
you can track in and whatnot.
You can resize the window.
Unfortunately, that's not the most
modern UI for resizing,
but we'll take care of that
in a little while later.
So that shows you just how to get sort
of a bare-bones skeleton application up,
and I'll go into more details
in successive demos later.
David?
Hopefully you've installed Panther on
your machines already and maybe
have tried to do this and you've
seen that it's pretty easy just
to get a simple app up and running.
But a simple app is not very fun
unless you have a user interface.
It's not all about being fun,
but you want to be able to
have some functionality.
And your functionality can't
really be provided to the
user without a user interface.
When you make your user interface,
you want to make a modern user interface.
And I'd like to kind of touch
on the points that really define
what a modern user interface is.
First, you want to adhere as
closely as possible,
with exceptions,
to the human interface guidelines.
So there's a document that we'll
put up a reference to later on,
and you could read through that.
It sort of gives you the guidelines
about how you're supposed to
use the user interface elements
in conjunction with each other.
One thing about laying
out the user interface,
you can see in the top right here
I have a picture of Interface Builder.
There's some little blue dashed lines.
So it has a guidelines feature.
An Interface Builder helps you lay
out your user interface according to
some of the guidelines provided by the
Human Interface Guidelines document.
The next thing you can do to adhere
to the Human Interface Guidelines
is to use HIToolbox controls.
We work very hard on the controls
to make sure they adhere as strongly
as possible to the guidelines given
to us by the Human Interface team.
And if you use them,
you get all of our hard work for free.
Next, you want to use modern
compositing windows.
I mentioned compositing earlier.
It's a drawing model where
only what's needed to be drawn
gets drawn in your application.
It's much more efficient.
You can provide an application that's
much more modern by using this.
It's kind of nice because it's just
a checkbox in Interface Builder.
You click the checkbox for compositing.
If you use all of our controls,
they can be used in composited windows.
And you get the efficiency
right there for free.
And that's nice.
The next thing is live resizing.
Guy showed he was resizing the
window there in the application.
It just showed an outline of the window.
And that's not really a
responsive user interface.
So you want to turn on live resizing.
Again, it's just a checkbox
in Interface Builder.
You check it.
And that means that as the
user modifies the window,
changing the size,
etc., the user interface
responds instantaneously,
and the user can see what
resizing that window means.
You also want to use the
standard event handler.
Again, guess where the checkbox is?
Using the standard event handler
for a window means that all of the
routine event handling for a window,
like what to do when someone clicks
on a title bar and drags it around,
or clicks in the close
box or the grow box,
all gets handled automatically
through the standard event handler.
Also, when it comes time to
interact with the user,
maybe to interrupt them
and give them information,
you can use Sheets or standard
alerts as appropriate.
When it comes time to interact
with the user to describe
locations of files and folders,
You can use navigation services.
So all of these things together
will give you the basics of
a modern Carbon application.
So I talked about the user interface
elements that are available to you.
There's quite a few.
I can't stick them all in one slide,
so I've had to break them
up into bits because there's
just so much available to you.
First,
there's a few kinds of menus you can use.
There's the menus you're used to
that come out of the menu bar.
There are contextual menus that
you get when you command-click
or right-click on user interface.
These contextual menus change
according to what piece of user
interface is being interacted with.
There's also pop-up button menus.
All of these are just lists of
commands that the user can make,
select to perform actions.
They're just simple actions
that a user can pick.
Next, we have a whole bunch of
different kinds of windows.
And you want to use windows to
present your user interface and
your information to the user.
So the biggest window we have
up there is a document window.
You'll put the contents of any
sort of document functionality
of your application there.
Here it's just a picture from TextEdit,
I think, or SimpleText.
Out the side of that window is a
drawer where you can provide additional
information about specific content.
On the bottom left,
there's a utility window.
That's a good place to show properties
of objects in a user interface.
On the bottom right, I show a sheet.
And a sheet is a kind of
window that actually is
grouped with a document window,
and it comes out of the top and is
associated directly with that window.
So you can interrupt the user
and provide information about
a specific window that way.
Next, there are a few kinds of toolbars.
We have metal toolbars.
I show a few examples here.
The second one is large icons with text.
And then I show some,
there's different modes that you
get all automatically and free.
You can select small icons without text.
And you can have iconless entirely.
I don't know if you can
see well in this slide,
but there's a little
chevron on the right,
and that's all provided automatically.
The chevron on the right turns into
a set of menu items when there's not
enough room to display the toolbar
functionality that's available.
Now the controls.
There's a lot of controls
available to you.
And I'll break it out into
a few slides in a second,
but I've highlighted some
in yellow or orange here.
These are the new ones that
we've introduced in Panther.
We have the segment view.
It has a little asterisk there
because we didn't finalize the
APIs in time to get onto your seed CD.
Sorry about that.
My fault a little bit.
Also, we've introduced a text view,
which is a wrapper around
the MLTE text objects.
It's very powerful.
We've also added a search field
so that you can provide the search
functionality like you see in
the Finder and as you've seen
introduced in many places in Panther.
I've divided those up into
a few different groups.
That's the way I group them mentally.
I don't know if everybody does.
I'm just going to go through those
groups to talk about the different
kinds of controls that are available.
The first group is buttons.
There's push buttons
that you're all used to,
radio buttons and check boxes that if
you don't know what they are by now,
you've been using them
for quite a long time.
They're the standard ones you're used to.
We have bevel buttons,
sort of squarish buttons that can
have icons and textual content.
Little arrows, which you see are the...
On the top right there,
it's a little set of arrows used
to allow a user to increment
or decrement some values.
And we have the new segment view,
which you can see on the bottom.
I'd like to take a second to tell
you what the segment view is.
The segment view is a way to allow the
user either to select something or to
provide some sort of state functionality
when you click on the buttons.
It's very powerful.
Guy had a session earlier where
he talked about it in detail.
If you can see that on the DVD,
he really provides a lot of good
information about segment view.
The next group is text controls.
We have a lot of those now
because we've been adding some.
First, there's edit text,
which you're used to for
putting small textual items in,
say, a form user interface of some sort.
Static text for labeling
pieces of your user interface.
We have the new text view,
where you can provide much more
complex textual information,
allow the user to edit
it and have it styled,
etc., using the
MLTE objects at its center.
We have the clock control,
which is what we call the
piece here that's used to
display the time and the date.
And you can allow the user to set
display times or dates to users or
allow them to set times and dates.
We have the new search field,
which you can use to provide the
user a chance to give you feedback
about what they want to search for.
It should be used exclusively for
searching rather than any other
specialized content because it's been
branded to be a search field and it's
very important to maintain that look
as something a user will automatically
think about as a searching item.
And lastly up there we have a combo
box which is sort of a combination
between a pop-up button with a
menu and a text field where they
can sort of type select things.
The next group is tracks.
So we have scroll bars in there where
a user can scroll their user interface.
A slider for indicating
values on a sliding scale.
Progress indicator for you
to provide feedback about the
progress of your application.
That's the one that's got a
blue rectangle on it there.
And a relevance bar for
providing feedback about how
relevant maybe something in a
set of searches is to a user.
The more full the relevance bar,
the more relevant it is to the user.
We have kinds of controls
I call grouping controls,
like the tab control,
which is the outermost group here.
It says 1, 2 at the top,
where you can group the user
interface by tabbed panes.
A group box, show that there,
just sort of put a box around.
These are interface elements
that are related to each other.
There's also the radio group,
which is kind of a nice feature.
It does some automatic behaviors for you.
You can put up a series of radio buttons,
then as the user selects
the radio buttons,
it communicates with the other
radio buttons to turn them
off and on automatically.
The last kind of controls is
kind of a miscellaneous pack.
It's our specialized controls.
We're getting to have
quite a few of those now.
So we have an image view.
We've got SpongeBob up
in an image view here.
Does anybody know who SpongeBob is?
If you come to my office,
you can meet him.
We also have the chasing arrows.
That used to be a control that
had arrows chasing each other.
Now it kind of looks like a
pinwheel or a spoke effect.
It shows an animation that shows
your application is doing something.
We have separator bars.
Those are vertical and horizontal lines.
You can draw those to the user interface
guidelines by using that control.
They're used to separate your user
interface into different compartments.
We have the icon control and image well,
where you can show other image
content and they're clickable.
We have the scrolling view here.
That's that other image here
with the person in pink in it.
And it allows you to put content
in it and automatically scroll it.
You get a lot of functionality there
that you used to have to do by hand.
And also for providing sort of
hierarchical data representation
or table data representations,
we have a sort of a complex
control called a data browser.
So back to the big list.
It shows that there's a lot of
user interface that you can use
without creating your own to create
your applications user interface.
You shouldn't really have to
create too many custom controls.
You should be able to use these and
make a fairly full-featured application.
All of these user interface elements,
it's nice to talk about them,
but I'd like to just touch on NIBs
and talk about what I mean by NIBs.
NIBs are an XML-based extensible
way of describing a user interface.
I'm going to get,
I think it's best of all to show Guy,
to get Guy to show you how to make them,
but before he shows you,
I'm going to talk about how you can
load your user interface out of a nib.
Loading a NIB is very straightforward.
There's an API called CreateNibReference.
So you're going to have a file
inside of your application bundle.
and you'll know the name of it.
You'll provide it to this API in
the incoming nib name parameter.
Tell it you want to
load that nib reference.
And that's all there is to loading it.
After that you'll load all of
your nib content out of it.
When you're finished with it,
you dispose of the nib reference.
Now, I don't mean that you have to keep
your nib reference around for the
whole lifetime of your application.
Just open a nib reference,
get what you need out of it,
and close it again.
If you need to use it later
on in your application,
you can reopen it without a problem.
That's okay, but all you're doing is
opening the nib reference.
The interesting part is taking your
user interface out of the nib reference.
So there's a few APIs for doing that.
You can set your menu bar from a nib.
You can create a menu from a nib.
Or you can, kind of most interestingly,
because you're going to be making a
lot of your user interface in Windows,
you can create Window from Nib.
All of these APIs take reference
to the nib that you created
with CreateNibReference,
the API I showed in a previous slide.
As well as a name that you have decided
while you were creating the nib.
So say you named your window "main
window," you provide that string there,
and that is the nib that will be
loaded with createWindowFromNib.
Once you've loaded a few
things out of your nib,
so what?
You know, you have, you've loaded them.
What do you do then?
How do they work?
There's a simple API called
RunApplicationEventLoop.
And it's simple because
it's very easy to call.
I have a prototype at the bottom here.
RunApplicationEventLoop.
And it kind of gets everything going.
It starts the event dispatcher,
which starts all of the
standard event handling that
happens in your application.
It's important to note that this API,
you call it and it goes away.
It doesn't come back for the
duration of your application
until your application quits.
does all the standard event handling,
like application activation
and deactivation,
and that kind of thing.
It calls all the event handlers
that are necessary for your
user interface to work.
And it's pretty easy to use.
And why I bring this up is because just
in the APIs that I've gone through,
I can show you a .niB
sample code right up here,
and it's a full application.
It doesn't do much,
it's just a user interface.
But it's a full application.
So I create a .niB reference,
referring to the .niB file
in my application bundle.
I set up a menu bar from that .niB
by passing in the -- I have a menu
bar named MyMenuBar in this example.
Then I create a window from
the nib called myWindow.
I'm done with the nib reference,
so I dispose nibReference,
and I run Application Event Loop.
This is a full application,
and it'll start up, put up a menu bar,
put up a window that can
be dragged around and used.
So I'd like to invite
Guy to show the next step,
making a user interface
with Interface Builder.
GUY SMITH: Thank you, David.
OK, so he's told us about all the tools
we need to put together an interface.
And I will show you how to build one.
So when I created the project with Xcode,
it automatically created
a main.nib for me.
And in fact,
it loaded some of those things
automatically in the little skeleton
app that Xcode created for me.
And this code looks almost identical
to the code David showed you before.
So no surprise there.
So let's take a look at the
nib that Xcode created for us.
And we'll look at that
with Interface Builder.
First thing you'll notice is that
the title of the nib is main.nib.
Minus the .nib part, minus the extension,
that is the name you would pass
to the Create Nib Reference
API to create your nib.
And similarly, everything that's in
your nib also has a name.
For instance,
the menu bar is just called Menu Bar,
so you'd load it with that name.
And the main window is
just called Main Window,
and you'd load it with that name.
All right.
So let's actually do something
interesting with this nib.
Let's open up our window in the nib.
And I want to make a picture viewer,
so I need a place to
display some pictures,
first of all.
So I'm going to-- oh, before I do that,
I actually want this thing to
look a little bit better than
just a plain white canvas.
So let me bring up the inspector.
And I want to set a few
attributes on the window.
So there is a notion of a theme brush
that can be associated with the window.
And this determines how the
window background paints.
Since this is going to be a normal window
in the document layer of an application,
and that's sort of the mode-less layer,
I want the mode-less look,
which will give me the Aqua lines.
Now another thing I need to set
on the window is I want some of
those modern features turned on.
So I'm going to click the library
size checkbox and the compositing
checkbox so that I can use HIViews and
so I can get a nicer looking resize
than just that sort of rectangle.
All right, so now let me actually add
some stuff to the window.
I want a place to put my images,
so I'm going to drag
out a group box here.
But I don't want a title on it,
so I'll delete that.
And let me put it in the right place.
So here's an example of some of
the guides David was mentioning
for Interface Builder.
It lets you sort of snap your controls
and views to the right place according
to the user interface guidelines.
And Interface Builder
does that automatically.
So let me grow this
thing out a little bit.
And I want some push buttons.
Put that in the right spot here.
I want a previous button.
One thing I want to do to this
button is I want to be able to react
to it when the user clicks on it.
And the way I'm going to do
that is to set up a command,
associate a command with this button.
It's just a little four-character code.
This command will automatically be
sent out via the Carbon event mechanism
whenever the user clicks on the button.
Now another way I want to set up this
button is by giving it a signature.
This signature allows me in
my code to be able to fetch
that button from the window.
I can say sort of give me the
control with the signature previous
and ID 0 out of a window so I can
manipulate it later if I need to.
So I'll go ahead and set that up.
And in addition to the previous button,
I want a next button.
Let's get that in the right spot.
Give it the right title.
[Transcript missing]
GroupBox, grow that to the right size.
And I need to set an
image view specific-- oh,
I need to do two things
to the image view.
First of all, I need to give it the right
signature so I can find it later.
This one doesn't need a command,
so I don't need to do that.
Let's set up an attribute.
I'm going to set the
scale to fit attribute.
It just modifies the way the image will
get actually displayed in the image view.
OK, so let's save our nib.
and Rebuild Our Project.
And it comes up just like that,
so the interface got loaded.
Now, unfortunately, even though we've got
library size turned on,
the views are not relaying out.
This is something we
addressed in Panther.
We have a new set of
APIs called HIV layout.
We're going to talk about it in session,
I think it's 4:25,
which is immediately following this one,
but in the room upstairs.
And we'll go into details
on exactly how to use that.
Now, I've already written
some code to do that.
And let's go ahead and add
that to our application.
I'm going to add a bunch of files.
Oh,
let me add it to a different place here.
Add a bunch of files.
So I'm also adding some files for some
other functionality I'll show off later.
The important thing I needed
is in FilmstripView.c.
So let's go back into main
and let's set up the layouts.
So I will need to include a
prototype that's in FilmstripView.
And, all right, so let's see,
I've created my window.
Right before I show it,
I want to set up the layouts that
take advantage of HIViewLayout to
automatically resize all my widgets.
And that is via my
setupWindowLayout function.
So now that that's in,
I should be able to build and run.
And now, when I resize the window-- oh,
you know what?
I must have missed something in the nib,
but I'll fix that later.
So anyway,
the buttons move around appropriately,
and the group should move around as well.
But I botched something up,
but that's OK.
I'll fix that for the next one.
So that shows you how you can
construct a basic interface.
And like I said,
we'll go into more details
on how to use HIV layouts,
which is a really powerful technology.
And we'll go into details
in another session.
So in subsequent demos,
I'm going to actually add some
functionality to this app.
But before I do that,
David needs to lay some
more groundwork for you.
Thank you, Guy.
So Guy showed that it's pretty easy
to use Interface Builder to add some
of the user interface elements that
are available from HIToolbox into your
application so that you can provide
feedback to the user about how your
application is going to look and work.
Next I want to go over roughly
what the architecture of a
modern Carbon application is.
So we showed you the nibs that
define the user interface.
I think that's very important.
Once those nibs are up,
Carbon Events are what animate
it and what give it life.
So the handling of
Carbon events is important.
Like I mentioned before,
it's a non-polling way
of handling events,
where you only listen to the events
that are important to the application.
I want to talk about event
handlers in a few slides.
There's also the handling of HICommands.
HICommands, the way I think about them,
is that they're sort of simplified
Carbon events where they just describe
an action that the user wants to take.
You do this through an HICommand,
which is just a 32-bit value
that identifies an action.
You also want to provide
a reactive user interface.
What I mean by that is that as the
application changes its state underneath,
you want the buttons and menus,
etc., to react to that change of
state by becoming enabled or disabled
or have the names of menus change,
etc.
Menu items change, etc.
Other than that,
all you need to focus on is the
functionality that you're providing in
your application that makes it special
and makes your customers want to buy it.
So here's kind of a pictorial overview
of what I just said a minute ago.
So we've got these yellow blocks up here.
They represent the nibs that you made,
as Guy showed you.
As you load them in, you can maybe
programmatically modify them,
as he did with adding layouts to them.
And we'll show you that
you can also install event
handlers to provide your custom
functionality from the application.
Once you load them,
you run Application Event Loop.
And the standard event handler
is going to take care of
all the routine operations.
That's what those orange circles mean.
That means that all the window
dragging and menu tracking,
etc.
are going to be handled by
the application for free.
It's all routine stuff and you
don't have to worry about it.
But say you put in an event handler
or a command handler on the OK button.
When they click the OK button,
you can have a custom event
handler that's there that gets
called and then you can deal with
your functionality afterwards.
And that's really what you want
to focus on is your functionality
that you're providing that
makes your application special.
So I keep talking about events.
What are these events?
They're the basic messaging
system of HIToolbox.
So when a user clicks,
or there's any typing,
or there's communication
between user interface elements,
or any part of the application,
there's these messages going around,
and they're Carbon events.
HIToolbox internally sends
tons and tons of events.
And that's what makes the whole
event dispatching system so powerful.
The cool thing is that you don't
really need to handle too many.
In fact,
you don't need to handle any at all.
You only have to focus on
the ones you care about.
You ignore most of them all the time.
There's many,
many events that are happening
that you never even know are
happening and you don't really care.
I've mentioned standard event
handling a few times now.
What is standard event handling
and what's so special about it?
Well, like getting your eyesight this
WWDC or getting a t-shirt or whatever,
the best thing about it is there's
tons of free things in there.
It means that you don't
have to do any work.
And the less work that you have to do,
the more you can focus on the
functionality of your application.
So, HIToolbox really deals with most of
the events that happen automatically,
like application activation,
deactivation.
You don't really want to pay
attention to that unless you care.
Menu tracking, control tracking,
and all the window handling.
The more you use this automatic behavior,
the better off you are because
you haven't had to do much work.
And if we change the
way the handling works,
we're going to change it in the
standard event handler so that
it behaves the specified way.
And you'll get that behavior for free,
even in an already shipping
application if we can.
Best of all, it simplifies your UI code
so there's less work for you,
less work for you to keep track of,
and it's easier for you to
maintain your code base.
So I got a standard
event handler up here.
You notice some of the spaces fell out.
It's standard event handler
all squished together.
That's kind of a special event
handler that we have for Windows.
I mention it because you need to
turn it on with that checkbox that
I showed in a previous slide and
was on in the Interface Builder when
Guy was making the user interface.
It handles all of the standard
window behavior for free,
so you don't have to worry about dragging
the window around or resizing it or
handling the clicks in the close box.
It also, much more importantly,
routes all the mouse and keyboard events
to the controls and the user interface
that you use inside of a window to
make up your applications interface.
As I mentioned earlier,
you just click a checkbox in
iB and you can forget about it.
That window is just going
to behave properly for the
duration of your application.
So I'd like to kind of break down
events and event handlers a little bit.
Events are identified by
their class and their kind.
It's a pair.
It's a pair of two 32-bit values.
So there's an event class,
like KEventClassControl,
or KEventClassWindow, or KEventClassMenu.
And then there's different
event kinds in those classes.
So say with the Control class,
there's KEventControlBoundsChanged
or KEventControlPartHit or whatever.
There's a lot of events, as I mentioned,
and we work very hard to
document all of them very well.
If you go and read carbonevents.h
inside the HIToolbox headers
in System Library Frameworks,
they're very well documented.
And the more you learn these,
the more you'll learn about what
kind of power you can add to your
application when you need to.
Now there are a few
different event types.
We break them down into
sort of three categories.
There are method types of events,
and that's an event that gets
sent to something to tell it
that it's chance to handle
"It's functionality specific to itself.
For example, you could have a k-event
control draw event,
get sent to a control.
And that's...
That's the event system calling the
control and letting it know that it
should do its functionality then.
There are also notification events that
get sent to different event targets.
Let the target know that
something is happening.
An example of this might be a
k-event control bounce changed event.
So you can let a control know that
somebody has changed its bounce,
and the control needs to
react to that somehow.
There's also hook kind of events.
We call them hook events.
That's where the event system lets a
target know that something's happening.
Then that target can optionally do
something about it if it wants to.
A good example of that would be maybe
a k-event window bounds changing event.
Notice "ing" at the end instead
of "changing." That means that the
window is in the process of changing.
If you want to override that behavior
a bit and modify the way it's
changing before it actually changes,
that's your hook to be able to do that.
So I said event targets
a few times there.
There are a few different
kinds of event targets.
The main ones are the
application event target.
So any events that are going to
the application like the quick
command or the application event,
application activated command,
event will go to the
application event target.
There's also a window event target,
so any events that are related to windows
will go to the window event target.
Same goes for controls,
and there's a few other specialized
kinds that I won't get into.
This is all nice,
but what you want to do is install your
own custom event handler on the pieces,
on the targets that are important
to you to add your functionality.
And you do that with a
custom event handler.
And here's the prototype of how your
custom event handler should look.
So I have it.
It's called MyControlEventHandler.
It'd be great if it was bigger.
I guess I didn't make it big enough.
And it takes, when it gets called,
it gets passed an event handler call ref.
Generally,
you don't really care about that
unless you're passing the event on
to some other part of the system.
You get an event ref, which is important.
It tells you what kind
of event is coming in.
And you're also given a chance to
set up some user data beforehand,
and that user data will be
passed in to the event handler.
So let's go into that in
a little bit more detail.
Here's an example event handler.
It's a control event handler,
and it happens to be handling
a notification that the
control has changed its bounds.
So the first thing it does is
it takes some user data that's
passed in and it changes it,
casts it into a control.
I'll show you why that
is in a little bit.
That's a good way of passing in
which control is being handled,
which control is being passed this event.
Next thing you want to do is use
getEvent parameter to extract information
out of the event as you handle it.
In this case,
it's extracting the current bounds
of the control as a rectangle and
sticking it into the new bounds,
hirect.
Once you have that,
this is where you have your chance
to provide your functionality.
You do something with what the
new bounds of the control was.
Maybe you relay out a control or I don't
know exactly what you're going to do.
And then when you're finished,
you return no error to
mean I handled the control.
So you really only want to return
two different types of things from
an event handler that the event
subsystem is going to care about.
No error, which means I handle it
and there's no errors.
You don't have to worry about anything.
Or an event not handled error,
which means I didn't handle an event.
You can do whatever you
want on top of that.
Installing an event
handler is very simple.
You install a event handler
and you pass in the target.
Who you're installing
the event handler on,
and who's going to be receiving
these events that you're going to
be allowed to do some handling on.
I'm going to pass in
an Event Handler UPP.
That's a UPP,
Universal Procedure Pointer, I think,
to the Universal Proc Pointer,
to the custom event handler
that you've written.
You're going to tell it how many
events you're interested in,
and you're able to pass
in an event type spec.
A pointer to an event type spec array,
which is a bunch of
pairs of class and kind,
event class and event kind,
that describes which events your handler
is interested in receiving calls for.
The last highlighted item in user data,
you can pass in whatever
user data you want.
What I like to do is pass in
the instance of the kind of
target that I'm passing in.
So if I'm installing this on a control,
I'll almost always pass in the
control ref as my user data.
It's a good, easy,
fast way of getting your control ref back
out when your event handler gets called.
It's on a window,
I pass in the window ref as my user data,
etc.
And what you get out
is a event handler ref,
which you can use in various
ways afterwards if you care to.
It can be null.
Most of the time you don't really care.
There are a few shortcuts
to get the target.
So everything has a target,
as I mentioned earlier,
like an application, a window,
or a control.
And so there are some macros
that are just kind of wrappers
around this API where you can say,
"Install Control Event Handler,"
and specify the control rather
than getting the target out of
the control and specifying that.
It just makes it a little bit
easier for you to call it.
There's a nice one for "Install
Window Event Handler." And you can call
"Install Application Event Handler,"
and it'll just go get the current event
application target and pass that in.
It's very similar to the one above.
So here's an example of
installing an event handler.
Like I said, it's very straightforward.
We've got the prototype
for my event handler,
which is implemented elsewhere.
This is just the prototype for it.
It's implemented a few slides back.
I have an event type spec array where
I've specified that I'm interested
in kEvent class events and kEvent
control bounce chains event kinds.
And then I just install
control event handler.
On my control, this is the wrapper,
it goes and gets the event
target ref for that control.
I pass in a UPP to my
control van handler.
Conveniently on OS X,
UPPs are just the function pointers.
In this case,
I'm just passing in a function
pointer for an easy example.
I count how many event types
were in that event list.
There's a nice macro in carbonevents.h,
getEventTypeCount,
which will just do a size
calculation and pass in the
right number there all the time,
no matter what you change the array to.
Pass in the event list.
And also,
the last one there is my control.
So as my user data,
I'm passing in the control
ref to my control so I can
extract it later on easily.
Here's an example of a little more
complicated event handler where
it's handling more than one kind
of event by using getEventClass
and getEventKind to check the class
and kind of the incoming event.
So it uses the inEvent
parameter that's coming in,
use getEventClass and
getEventKind to check if it's,
again, a kEventClass control or
kEvent control bounds changed.
That's all nice,
but I'd like to give you a little
overview about the flow of the events
and commands in your application.
When an event is first sent,
this is kind of a general thing,
I'll talk more,
maybe some specifics at the end,
goes to the focus control.
If the focus control doesn't handle it,
say in this case the button
was the focus control,
if the button doesn't handle it,
it gives its parent, the group box,
a chance to handle it.
If the group box has any parents,
say a tab control in this example,
it gives that parent
a chance to handle it.
If that control doesn't handle it,
it gives the parent window
a chance to handle it.
If the parent window doesn't handle it,
it gives the application
a chance to handle it.
So it kind of goes up the
hierarchy and gives everybody
a chance to handle events.
Now there are a few exceptions.
Sometimes notifications
aren't really important to
propagate or some method calls.
You tell a control, "Hey,
draw yourself." You don't want to give
the window a chance to draw the control.
It just doesn't make sense.
So there are a few exceptions
and those are all well
documented in carbonevents.h.
I just want to touch on
handling commands a bit.
Like I said,
they're simplified Carbon events where
you just have a 32-bit value identifying
an action that the user wants to take.
What's really nice about these
is that the source of the
command is not really relevant.
If you want to close a window,
you don't care if the user is
going to close the window by
clicking the close box or selecting
close from the close menu.
All you care about is they
want to close the window.
So it's nice that you can kind of
ignore the source of a command,
and that's what makes them special.
It doesn't really matter
where they come from.
They can come from menus.
They can come from controls.
They can be programmatically generated.
You just want to handle them.
Say, "Hey, this command happens.
"I want to handle that command."
And it doesn't... The handling of
the command is really contextual,
so whoever handles the command,
it kind of depends on
what the command is.
So you can install a command handler
on different controls in your user
interface to respond or anywhere,
in any of your event handlers.
Like I said, you don't really care about
where the command comes from.
And what's nice about that is
that a command can come from
multiple different sources,
and you don't care as long
as you're getting a command.
In this case,
I'm getting a "khi-command-close," which
is a sort of a standardized command that
you could use out of carbon-events.h.
And it doesn't matter that it's coming
from the close box or maybe an OK box
on a window or from a menu item.
All you care about is that
the user wants to close,
and you can handle it and not
worry about where it came from.
So, here's an example command handler,
and it's just a
specialized event handler,
where we're checking,
we're doing getEventClass
and getEventKind again,
but we're checking for this
specialized class and kind pair,
keventClassCommand and
keventCommandProcessKind.
The command ID is a
parameter of the event.
We just extract the HICommand out of
the event using getEvent parameter,
and then we switch
based on the command ID.
And this is where we dispatch
out and handle our action.
This is where you can
provide your functionality.
So next I want to ask Guy just to go
through handling events and commands
in the application a bit and kind of
build up our application a bit more.
Okay, yeah,
so let's add some event handling here.
Because Xcode and Interface
Builder already set up my window
to use the standard event handler,
most of the functionality
happens for free.
You can click on the menus,
you can resize the window,
drag the window around,
click on buttons and stuff.
All I really care about is when
the user clicks on a couple
of buttons in my application.
Now, if you recall,
back when I set up the nib,
I put commands in each of the
previous and next buttons.
And so those commands are going to
automatically be sent out whenever
the user clicks on those buttons.
So I just need to listen
for those commands.
So let's go ahead and wire
up that functionality.
Okay,
so what I need to do here is include
another header for the prototype.
I've got a handler already written.
And I'm just going to make sure
to install that on my window
after I've set up the layout
and before I show the window.
Now let's take a look at that handler.
Actually, before I show you the handler,
let me show you something else.
I've already defined some constants
that represent those same commands
that I associated with the button,
and I'll be using those a
little bit later on in the code.
So here's my,
it's a little wrapper routine
that shows you how to install
an event handler on a window.
I built up one of those event type specs,
which is a list of all the
events I want to handle.
In this case,
I only want to handle one event.
It's an event of class
KEVENT_PROSESS_COMMAND.
This is the event that gets sent out
when a command is chosen from something.
And then I install my
handler on the window,
and the handler looks an awful lot
like the code you just saw from David.
If I get one of these events,
the KEVENT_CLASS_COMMAND,
KEVENT_PROSESS_COMMAND events,
I need to extract this
HICOMMAND structure that describes
things about the command.
It tells you specifically
what that command is.
It tells you what the command ID is,
as well as some information about
where the command came from.
So you can find out if
it came from a menu,
and if so, which menu item,
should you need to know that.
In my particular case,
I don't need to know any of that.
So I just switch on the
command ID that comes in.
And right now,
I've got some stubbed out functionality,
but just for this demo real quick here,
I'm going to beep whenever the user
chooses the previous or next image.
So let's go ahead and build and run.
and hopefully we've got
volume on on this machine.
Uh-oh,
I don't know if the volume's turned on.
Okay, there we go.
Yeah,
so you can hear this is beep working.
That's not a whole lot
of great functionality.
I'll actually show you how to put
some real functionality behind
this in a few minutes after
David goes over some other features.
Thank you, Guy.
So you can see that it's very easy to
install an event handler to take care
of the events that you care about.
In this case, it was some commands,
handling commands.
Next I just want to touch on,
we're not really going to use
alerts in our demo application,
I just want to touch on alerts
and when you should use them.
So what are they?
They're a way of intercepting,
interrupting the user to tell
them something important.
You've seen them before.
So you can inform the user
of errors or warnings or bad
things that have happened,
maybe good things that have happened.
When should you use them?
Well you should use them
when it's important enough to
interrupt the user's workflow.
with something that they need to address.
There's two different kinds of alerts.
You get standard alerts,
which come up in a dialogue,
as you see on the top there,
and that interrupts the
application application-wide.
That means that the user can't
use the application anymore
until they address the alert
that's come up in front of them.
You want to do that with
something that's important.
Say they quit the application and
they have multiple open documents.
You want to interrupt the
whole application and say,
"Hey, you don't want to quit until
you've saved all your hard work.
You're going to lose it."
There's also sheet alerts,
and these don't interrupt
the application,
the user application-wide.
They interrupt the user
just on a per-window basis.
So they come up out of a sheet,
maybe out of a document window,
and interrupt that one window and give
information about that one window.
So say a user is just going to close
a window that they had modified,
you can have a sheet alert
come out of there and say,
"Hey,
you've changed things in this document.
You're going to lose them if you
just close it without saving."
Using standard alerts
is very straightforward.
There's an API called
CreateStandardAlert.
You pass in the alert type.
You can give it a string for
what kind of error has happened,
and you can give a little
explanation about that error.
There's a few settings that you
can set up in a param block.
I'm not really going to cover that.
You can read about it in dialogs.h.
And what comes out as a standard alert?
What comes out as a dialogue
ref to the standard alert?
Which you can then pass to the next API,
RunStandardAlert,
where you pass in the alert dialog
ref of the alert you've just created.
And that will block the
application and won't return
until the user's dealt with that.
The first step is to create a dialog.
The dialog is a set of standard
ones that are listed in dialogs.h
that you can use to determine
how that dialog was dismissed,
and then you can take the
right course of action.
Here's an example of them in use.
So I'm creating a stop alert because
I can't save because a file is
locked and I can't override it.
So I just use createStandardAlert
to do that and I run standard alert,
an interruption comes up,
a dialog that contains that
message with maybe an OK button,
that's all I care about.
I run the standard alert and when
it comes back the only way they can
dismiss it is by clicking the OK button.
My part hit will indicate that
the OK button was clicked.
Using alert sheets is very similar.
You pass in the alert type and
the error and the explanation.
Everything is exactly the same except
you also pass in a notify target.
This is important because you're
not going to stop the application
and block it application-wide.
You're only going to
interrupt one window.
So you want to pass in a target that's
going to get events from this sheet
that comes up to let your application
know when it's been dealt with.
So most of the time you'll
pass the window target of the
window that's being interrupted.
And what you'll get out of that
is a dialog ref to the standard
alert sheet that is created.
To show this sheet,
use the ShowSheetWindow.
It's another API.
You'll notice, though,
that it takes as its parameter
in sheet is a window ref.
We've been using dialog refs for
standard sheets up until now,
and it's kind of a little bit of a
legacy workaround where you have to
get the window out of the dialog ref.
I'll show that in a second here.
So here's an example of
using a standard sheet.
It's a stop alert that comes up.
There's a very similar
message to what I used before.
Can't save that file
because the file is locked.
But in this case I'm passing
a notification target,
and that's who's going to receive
events when things happen to the sheet.
So I get window event
target of my window,
and that's the window that's being
interrupted by this standard sheet.
I get that sheet back as a dialog ref.
And then I need to pass a
window ref to show sheet window,
so I get dialog window from that sheet.
and that brings up the sheet and then
your application will then continue.
And you'll only get notifications
about that sheet closing later on as
events coming into your event target,
in this case your window event target.
Another way that you will
kind of need to interrupt to
interact with the user is files.
It's a very, very common one.
Users are doing all kinds
of things with files.
You want them to be able to
select files and folders,
maybe select save destinations.
And to do this,
you want to use navigation services.
It does all the work for you.
You don't have to worry about how the
file system looks or where everything's
laid out or anything like that.
You just call the APIs and it'll do all
of the open save panel stuff for you.
Users are very used to it.
They know how to use it.
And you're providing a user
interface that they're used to.
Good thing about this is that
when Navigation Services revs,
like it did for Panther,
you might have noticed,
you get all these improvements
for free in your application.
So everybody that was using Navigation
Services got the new Open and
Save panels system-wide for Panther.
It's also very customizable,
so if you need to do something special,
like have a pop-up box to select a kind
or some check boxes for some settings,
you can add that to
Navigation Services easily.
If you're not doing any customization,
it's very straightforward
to use navigation services.
In fact, I'd say it's pretty easy,
although the API looks a bit daunting.
So say you want to choose a file,
nav choose file.
You can specify a whole
bunch of parameters,
and I encourage you to go to
Navigation Services Framework,
navigation.h, and read about them.
But in general,
unless you're doing some customization,
you don't really care about those.
You'll notice that they're all
documented down the right-hand
side as being able to be null.
So if you pass null for all of them,
you'll get the standard
behavior of Navigation Services.
In fact, all I really care about
is the reply coming out.
That's the most important thing,
because that tells you what the user
selected or that they have selected.
NavChoose folder is very similar.
Again, you can see there's a whole
bunch of different parameters,
but the only real important
one to you is reply,
unless you want to do some customization.
So here's Navigation Services in action.
I use navchoose folder.
I'm passing null for all the
parameters except for the reply,
which I'm passing in as a
pointer to a navreply record.
After that returns, I check to see if the
reply was a valid record,
if the user actually selected something.
And then, because the reply can
contain a lot of information,
like multiple selections,
etc., we use Apple Events to extract
the selection out of the returned reply.
And it's pretty straightforward.
So you use aegit nth pointer,
you pass in the selection from the reply,
you tell it you only want one thing
and you're interested in fsref,
and you can get out your folder ref.
So let's bring Guy back,
and he'll show you how to use one
of those APIs in the application.
Okay,
so a picture viewer is not very good
unless I can provide the user a way
to choose some pictures to view.
So I'm going to add that
sort of functionality.
But I need to add another button to
my nib here so that the user can...
"So let's add another button.
Let's call it, I don't know, set folder.
Make it a little bit
bigger so it looks nice.
And, uh, let's add a button.
Now, in order to react to a
click in this button,
I need to give it a command.
So we'll do that.
and to show off the power
of commands a little bit,
let's also modify our menu bar.
Why don't we skip the menu for now?
We're running short on time.
Oh, we're running short on time?
Oh, indeed we are.
Okay,
so I could put that command in the menu
bar and invoke it that way as well.
But for now,
we'll just put it in the button here.
Okay, so we're saved.
The next thing I need to do -- so
I don't want to really worry myself
about the various image formats that
there are on Mac OS that we support.
I'm going to let QuickTime deal with
that because it does it very well.
So what I need to do here
is add another framework,
QuickTime framework to my project.
[Transcript missing]
Those sys beeps I put in place and
put the real functionality behind
the previous and next buttons.
And so you'll also see that
I handle a third command in the
handler I already showed you,
which handles the set folder button.
Now, my code I've already written for
set folder just uses that nav
choose folder API exactly the way
David showed you up there before.
So we'll just build and run this.
Click Set Folder.
Up comes the Nav dialog.
And now I'm browsing some pictures.
And I react to that as the user
clicks the Next and Previous button.
So I did all that just by installing one
Carbon Event Handler and building my nib.
Now that's cool,
but not every application
can just use these standard
views that we already provide.
A lot of applications need
their own custom views,
and I'd like one as well.
I'd like this interface
to be a little bit better.
I'd like to kind of show previews,
if you will,
of all the images-- of the images
in the folder that I'm browsing.
So I'll add that very quickly.
Reopen my nib.
Let's grow the window
a little bit bigger.
And--oops.
There we go.
I'm going to throw a user pane in place,
just sort of as a placeholder.
And my code goes in and replaces
this with my actual view.
Put that in the right spot.
Let's give him the... Oh,
I'm trying to remember my command.
Ah, yes.
Give him the right signature
so I can find him later.
And I don't actually need
to give him a command.
I think you should give it a command.
You think I should give it a command?
Okay, let's give it a command.
Oh,
David knows we should give it a command.
That means we must.
All right,
and so my code's already been modified,
actually, to deal with that.
So all I need to do is rebuild
and rerun the application
and choose another folder.
Let's do this one.
And all of a sudden, hey,
I can see myself,
and I get previews of myself as well,
and I can scroll around and react
to the next and previous buttons.
These are images from last year's demo,
so they just happen to
have these previews.
So that's it.
That's pretty much straightforward stuff.
We'll actually go into details
in the HIView in-depth session on
how you can create a custom view.
Not exactly this one that I showed here,
but something that's
actually a lot cooler,
because this one here is
actually fairly simple.
So anyway, I'll hand it back over
to David to wrap up.
Thank you, Guy.
So finally we got some
functionality into the application.
The end functionality that you're
going to add to your application,
it's important.
And you can kind of forget about
some of the user interface details.
You didn't have to worry about
the window resizing and the
window handling and all that.
You got the full application by focusing
on the functionality of the application.
So in summary,
it's hard to show you everything
that's available in HIToolbox.
We just want to give you a good start.
So you want to use the new
HIToolbox to make a fully featured,
full Mac OS X citizen
using C and C++ APIs.
We want to use .nib files to
create a great user interface,
but one that you don't have to really
worry about how it's all implemented,
because you'll use Carbon Events and
you'll only pay attention to the
events that you're interested
in to make your functionality,
to make your great app.
So I'd like to bring Xavier up to go
over some of the documentation that's
available and the roadmap for other
sessions that relate to HIToolbox.
Thank you.
I apologize,
we've been running a little bit late,
so we're going to try to go
quickly over the documentation so
we have time for some questions.
We have a bunch of documentation
available now for Carbon Events and
HIView in general.
I encourage you to go on the
ADC home where you'll see a list
of the new documentation and all
the things that are available
for doing C and C++ development.
When you look for
documentation or sample code,
check out HIToolbox first and
then go to the Carbon section,
depending on what you want to find out.
Some documentation as well is
available for like the human interface
guidelines to help you design
great user experience on Mac OS X.
And hopefully none of you need
the Carbon Porting Guide anymore.
As I said, a lot of sample code.
Look in the HI toolbox for
Mac OS X folder on the sample
code in the Carbon folder,
and you see a bunch of
things for like HIView.
Pretty nice.
And I encourage you to go,
which brings me again
to the documentation,
and which is something actually
the team wanted me to emphasize,
which is they've spent a lot of time
actually documenting the headers
as much as possible as a first
point of documentation for you guys.
It doesn't replace, you know, of course,
real documentation,
but I think it's a good start for you,
like, when you're looking for like
what a Carbon event does,
a special Carbon event
and things like that.
So check the header files.
One session, if you have custom controls
that you should really,
really,
really go and see is the next one on
the third floor in the Presidio room
where actually Ed will be talking about
HIView and we're going to give you,
we have very cool demos where
we're going to show you on how to
implement your own custom HIView.
Very nice, I encourage you to attend
that session of course.